---
slug: contemplation
---

**RICHARD**: Pure contemplation is not thinking ‘about’ something … which is the usual way of thought. Pure contemplation does not take a duration of [[What is time|time]]. It is instant thought, a realisation, a flash of seeing. In pure contemplation _[[Identity|‘I’]]_ do no thinking ... thinking does itself. _‘I’_ have no substance, therefore in pure contemplation there is thinking without a _‘thinker’_. Thought operates freely ... and in immaculate wonder. Pure contemplation is a state of unsullied wonderment: ‘how can this world happen?’, or ‘what is this universe doing here?’, or ‘where does this body come from?’. These questions are posed in such a way so as not to get a thought-out answer, but to simply wonder, in a pure contemplation of the actual. One stays with the notion: ‘I am this body’ and regards that magical world of the [[PCE|PCE]]. Opening up to that fairy tale-like world by seeing that it is indeed possible now makes it close … so close as to be already [[Being here now|here]]. It is always already here. Regard the very best as possible for oneself ... and for all human beings. There is a must in pure contemplation that something amazing can happen: all of a sudden _‘I’_ am no more and the actual is already here. I am here where I always have been. http://actualfreedom.com.au/richard/selectedwriting/sw-universe.htm

---

**RICHARD:** Being ‘alive’ is to be paying [[Aware-Cum-Attentive|attention]] – exclusive attention – to [[This Moment|this moment]] in time and this place in space. This attention becomes [[Curiosity-Fascination-Obsession|fascination]] ... and fascination leads to reflective **contemplation**. Then – and only then – [[Apperception|apperception]] can occur. ---[Richard’s Selected Correspondence On Contemplation](http://actualfreedom.com.au/richard/selectedcorrespondence/sc-contemplation.htm)

> Pure **contemplation** is when ‘I’ cease thinking ... and thinking takes place of its own accord. 

> Repeated [[PCE|peak experiences]] can be brought about on virtually a daily basis with constant application of **pure contemplation** of the actual. In pure contemplation, ‘I’, the identity, cease seeing and seeing takes place of its own accord ... this is called [[Apperception|apperception]], which is defined as ‘the mind’s perception of itself’. 

---


**RICHARD**:  Are you able to contemplate the atmosphere of your [[PCE|pure consciousness experience]]? By contemplation I do not mean trying to feel the experience; a peak experience is not a matter of emotions and passions, it is in a realm of its own, as you may remember. **Contemplation**, to work successfully, needs to be **pure** … stripped of emotive thought. For a moment allow yourself to set aside – not give up – your psychological state of _‘being’_, which is occupied by the latest accumulation of worries and preoccupations. Make all of your _identity_ unimportant, for now, and contemplate the perfection of being here now. Allow this moment to live you, instead of you living in the present. Experience yourself as [[Being the doing of what is happening]]. An immediate peace and calm emerges and all is wiped clean, allowing a three-hundred-and-sixty degree awareness to operate. It is like having eyes in the back of your head. In this clean atmosphere you can freely allow the pure quality of the immediacy of this moment to become paramount. It is of itself not at all concerned with the culturally defined personality you were just before; it takes no notice of any ‘problem’ that has just been plaguing you and is calmly unperturbed by any psychological interference. Instantly the friendly solution to all humankind’s problems lies open all around. It is a condition which cannot be mistaken as anything else than authentic, as it is your very character. It is the simple, actual quality of the universe itself … it is a magical world … a fairytale-like wonderland. In this, the actual world, [[Love|love]], worship and adulation – the whole _Spiritual_ gamut of surrender and obedience – do not play a role. _Divinity_ has become obsolete as a solution, because what you are seeing and experiencing now is pre-eminent. An intimacy closer than you have ever been with yourself, as you normally are, has replaced everything else ... this kind familiarity has superseded all what humans have ever believed as being _The Truth_. 

This is actuality, this, the world as-it-is, this is what you actually are. [_Richard’s Journal, 1997, Article Twenty-Nine_](http://www.actualfreedom.com.au/richard/selectedwriting/sw-pce.htm#WzTtDiV)