---
slug: contemplation
---

> [!quote] [Richard’s Selected Writings  on  The Universe](https://actualfreedom.com.au/richard/selectedwriting/sw-universe.htm)
> 
> Pure contemplation is not thinking ‘about’ something … which is the usual way of thought. ==Pure contemplation does not take a duration of [[What is time|time]]. It is instant thought, a realisation, a flash of seeing. In pure contemplation _[[Identity|‘I’]]_ do no thinking ... thinking does itself. _‘I’_ have no substance, therefore in pure contemplation there is thinking without a _‘thinker’_.== Thought operates freely ... and in immaculate wonder. Pure contemplation is a state of unsullied wonderment: ‘how can this world happen?’, or ‘what is this universe doing here?’, or ‘where does this body come from?’. These questions are posed in such a way so as not to get a thought-out answer, but to simply wonder, in a pure contemplation of the actual. One stays with the notion: ‘I am this body’ and regards that magical world of the [[PCE|PCE]]. Opening up to that fairy tale-like world by seeing that it is indeed possible now makes it close … so close as to be already [[Being here now|here]]. It is always already here. Regard the very best as possible for oneself ... and for all human beings. There is a must in pure contemplation that something amazing can happen: all of a sudden _‘I’_ am no more and the actual is already here. I am here where I always have been.

> [!quote] [Richard’s Selected Correspondence On Contemplation](https://actualfreedom.com.au/richard/selectedcorrespondence/sc-contemplation.htm)
> 
> Being ‘alive’ is to be paying [[Aware-Cum-Attentive|attention]] – exclusive attention – to [[This Moment|this moment]] in time and this place in space. This attention becomes [[Curiosity-Fascination-Obsession|fascination]] ... and fascination leads to reflective **contemplation**. Then – and only then – [[Apperception|apperception]] can occur. ==Apperceptive awareness can be evoked by paying exclusive attention to being fully alive right now.== This moment is your only moment of being alive ... one is never alive at any other time than now. And, wherever you are, one is always here ... even if you start walking over to ‘there’, along the way to ‘there’ you are always here ... and when you arrive ‘there’, it too is here. Thus attention becomes a fascination with the fact that one is always here ... and it is already now. Fascination leads to reflective contemplation. As one is already here, and it is always now ... then one has arrived before one starts.
> 
> The potent combination of attention, fascination, reflection and contemplation produces apperception, which happens when the mind becomes aware of itself. Apperception is an awareness of consciousness. It is not ‘I’ being aware of ‘me’ being conscious; it is the mind’s awareness of itself. Apperception – a way of seeing that is arrived at by reflective and fascinating contemplative thought – is when ‘I’ cease thinking and thinking takes place of its own accord ... and ‘me’ disappears along with all the feelings. Such a mind, being free of the thinker and the feeler – ‘I’ as ego and ‘me’ as soul – is capable of immense clarity and purity ... as a sensate body only, one is automatically [[Benevolence|benevolent]] and benign.


> [!quote] [Richard’s Selected Correspondence On Contemplation](https://actualfreedom.com.au/richard/selectedcorrespondence/sc-contemplation.htm)
> 
> Repeated [[PCE|peak experiences]] can be brought about on virtually a daily basis with ==constant application of **pure contemplation** of the actual==. In pure contemplation, ‘I’, the identity, cease seeing and seeing takes place of its own accord ... this is called [[Apperception|apperception]], which is defined as ‘the mind’s perception of itself’. 

> [!quote] [_Richard’s Journal, 1997, Article Twenty-Nine_](http://www.actualfreedom.com.au/richard/selectedwriting/sw-pce.htm#WzTtDiV)
> 
> Are you able to contemplate the atmosphere of your [[PCE|pure consciousness experience]]? By contemplation I do not mean trying to feel the experience; a peak experience is not a matter of emotions and passions, it is in a realm of its own, as you may remember. **Contemplation**, to work successfully, needs to be **pure** … stripped of emotive thought. For a moment allow yourself to set aside – not give up – your psychological state of _‘being’_, which is occupied by the latest accumulation of worries and preoccupations. Make all of your _identity_ unimportant, for now, and contemplate the perfection of being here now. Allow this moment to live you, instead of you living in the present. Experience yourself as [[Being the doing of what is happening]]. An immediate peace and calm emerges and all is wiped clean, allowing a three-hundred-and-sixty degree awareness to operate. It is like having eyes in the back of your head. In this clean atmosphere you can freely allow the pure quality of the immediacy of this moment to become paramount. It is of itself not at all concerned with the culturally defined personality you were just before; it takes no notice of any ‘problem’ that has just been plaguing you and is calmly unperturbed by any psychological interference. Instantly the friendly solution to all humankind’s problems lies open all around. It is a condition which cannot be mistaken as anything else than authentic, as it is your very character. It is the simple, actual quality of the universe itself … it is a magical world … a fairytale-like wonderland. In this, the actual world, [[Love|love]], worship and adulation – the whole _[[Spirituality|Spiritual]]_ gamut of surrender and obedience – do not play a role. _Divinity_ has become obsolete as a solution, because what you are seeing and experiencing now is pre-eminent. An intimacy closer than you have ever been with yourself, as you normally are, has replaced everything else ... this kind familiarity has superseded all what humans have ever believed as being _The Truth_. 
> 
> This is actuality, this, the world as-it-is, this is what you actually are. 

> [!quote] [Richard’s Selected Writings  on  How to Become Free from the Human Condition](https://actualfreedom.com.au/richard/selectedwriting/sw-method.htm)
> 
> RICHARD: ==[[Being here now|Being here now]] is to put your money where your mouth is, as it were==. All other actions are methods, devices, techniques ... which are, in effect, delaying tactics. The most sincere form of flattery is not, as is commonly practised, imitating all the other people’s performance of standing back and expressing a feeling. ==To feel an emotion or be passionate about life is nowhere near the same as actually being here now.== In being here [[This Moment|now]] one is completely involved. Being here now is total inclusion. One demonstrates one’s [[Appreciation|appreciation]] of life by partaking fully in existence ... by letting this moment live one so that one is [[Being the doing of what is happening|doing what is happening]]#. One dedicates oneself to the challenge of being here now as the universe’s experience of itself. When ‘I’ willingly and voluntarily sacrifice ‘myself’ – the psychological or psychic identity residing inside this body – ‘I’ am gladly making ‘my’ most supreme donation, for ‘I’ am what one holds most dear.