---
slug: loneliness
---
> [!cite/richard] [Richard’s Selected Writings on The Human Condition](https://actualfreedom.com.au/richard/selectedwriting/sw-humancondition.htm)
> 
> The esteemed goal within each group is to reach for the leadership. There lies, seemingly, more power, more love, more acceptance and more individuality. [..] **Loneliness** may seem to diminish by belonging to the group, but it actually does not. Rather, it becomes more and more poignant the higher one climbs.
> 
> The cause of **loneliness** and aloneness is not, as is commonly believed, alienation from others. ==The single reason for being alone and **lonely** is from not [[Being the doing of what is happening|being me as-I-am]]==. By not being me, but being, instead, an _[[Identity|identity]]_, _‘I’_ am doomed to perpetual loneliness and aloneness. _‘I’_ am fated to ever pursue an elusive _Someone_ or _Something_ that will fill that aching void. When I am me, there is no void. By being me as-I-am, I have no need for others; hence I also have no need to place the burden upon them to fulfil that what was lacking. Not only do I free myself from that perpetual pursuit, but I also free others in my company from the task _‘I’_ impose upon them. Being me is actual fulfilment, each moment again. Nevermore will I be needy, greedy and grasping. Nevermore will I plot and plan and manipulate others. Nevermore will I have to prostitute myself to others to assuage those main attributes of the _identity_: being lost, lonely, frightened and cunning. Not only am I free, but I set all others free of _‘my’_ grace-less demands. Being me is to be free-flowing, spontaneous, delightful ... and it is fun.
