---
slug: gender
---

[The Formation and Persistence of Social Identity](http://actualfreedom.com.au/an/various/persistentsocialidentity.htm) arguably provides the best synopsis on this ideology:

> RICHARD: This sexualised #[[Sex Identity|gender-identity]] became socio-politicised when ‘gender feminism’ and ‘[[woke|identity politics]]’ in particular gained traction due to clamorous ‘anti-discrimination’ vocalists and vociferous ‘equalitarian’ activists stridently cashing in on their minoritarian victimology socio-politico influence and its resultant lobbying pressure [..]

> What is implicit, in this twenty-first century _“social constructs”_ psychosexuality,[^psy] is how the days of merely relating as a ‘boy’ and a ‘girl’ or as a ‘man’ and a ‘woman’ (depending on sex and age) are increasingly becoming as if a bygone era due to nothing other than the sexualisation of those otherwise straightforward boy-girl and man-woman classifications such as to increate[^increate] those phantasmal[^phantasmal] ‘[[Sex Identity|gender identities]]’, or ‘sexual orientation identities’, in accordance with sexual persuasion and amative[^amative] predilection (as distinct from existing-in-fact-and-actuality anatomical and chromosomal identifiers).
>
> In other words, all the fuss and pother dominating current-affairs about 101-plus personal pronouns – made regulatory law, even, in some fiefdoms (e.g., the Canadian regulatory kerfuffle over Prof. Jordan Peterson et alia) – as well as males asseverating[^asseverate] gender-dysphoria competing in women’s sports, and nondiscriminatory access to public toilets and change-rooms,  and the suchlike, along with the antisemitic-style taking offence laws and/or regulations (as in ‘hate-speech’ laws), promulgated and promoted by the unelected and unaccountable United Nations bureaucrats and rapporteurs, stems from and revolves cyclonically around none other than this phantasmal[^phantasmal] _“social construct”_ of a gender-[[Identity|identity]] (a.k.a. _“sexual orientation identity”_ as explained in detail on pages 4-5 of the August 2009 “Appropriate Therapeutic Responses to Sexual Orientation” paper from the ‘American Psychological Association’, August 2009[^p]).

## Trivia

This very page seems to have played a part in [[nixos-mod|enraging woke leftists in NixOS]] at which time it contained the following additional quotation from Richard. Incidentally, when Srid recounted [[nixos-mod|those events]] to Richard, he (prior to his death in 2024) expressed how it was his favourite part of the essay and that he had a lot of fun writing it. He laughed out loud when Srid informed him as to how a woke leftist accused this passage [of being *"transphobic"*](https://x.com/sridca/status/1766944228129575327).

> RICHARD: Bedazzled by the abracadabra power of word-magic to increate and proliferate and present to the mind a mentalistically alluring array of wraithlike identities and/or sexualities, of every alphabetical dial-a-definition description imaginable, and being beguilingly driven to similarly razzle-dazzle the world at large, it has become (conceivably) possible for a female-gendered persona of a same-sex sexual persuasion, having habitancy in a male body, to somehow convince that body to undergo an oestrogenic hormone regimen, with the view to having sex reassignment surgery, so as to thereafter use a strap-on dildo over their surgically-fabricated vulvovaginal region when engaging in penetrative sexual activity with their female-gendered cohort, who, being similarly of a same-sex sexual persuasion and likewise having habitancy in a male body, has also partaken of oestrogenic hormone therapy and sex reassignment surgery.
## News

- 2021: [The Economist: A backlash against gender ideology is starting in universities](https://archive.ph/JPkAT)
- 2023: [The Telegraph: The cult of gender ideology is finally disintegrating](https://archive.is/20230609223701/https://www.telegraph.co.uk/columnists/2023/05/30/the-cult-of-gender-ideology-finally-crumbling/#selection-2957.4-2957.57)
- 2025: Trump executive order: ["Defending Women from Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to the Federal Government"](https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/defending-women-from-gender-ideology-extremism-and-restoring-biological-truth-to-the-federal-government/)

## See also

- [An Examen of “The Invention of ‘Heterosexuality’”](http://actualfreedom.com.au/an/contents.htm#contents)
- #[[woke-psychology]]
- #[[Social Identity]], the larger theme behind the illiberal gender ideology.


[^increate]: [Dictionary Definition]: (tr.v.): 1. to create within; [imp. & pp.: increated; ppr. & vb.n.: increating]. ~ [Webster’s 1913 Dictionary](https://www.webster-dictionary.org/definition/Increate).

[^phantasmal]: <table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" border="0" style="position:relative;margin:0px;padding:0px;border-width:0px;left:0px;top:0px;line-height:normal;width:auto;"><tbody style="position:relative;margin:0px;padding:0px;border-width:0px;left:0px;top:0px;line-height:normal;width:auto;"><tr><td id="WzBoDyI" style="position: relative; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; border-width: 0px; left: 0px; top: 0px; line-height: normal; width: auto; color: rgb(106, 0, 0); font-family: Verdana, Geneva, sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-align: justify;"><font size="2" face="Times" new="" roman="" color="#008000">[Dictionary Definitions]:<br>• phantasmal (adj.): relating to or of the nature of a phantasm<b>[†]</b>; unsubstantial; apparitional; imaginary; illusive, phantasmic; phantasmical; (adv.): phantasmally, phantasmically. <font size="1" color="#0000FF"><i>~ (Funk &amp; Wagnalls Dictionary).</i></font><blockquote style="margin-top: 5; margin-bottom: 5; margin-left: 15; margin-right: 10"><font size="2" face="Times" new="" roman="" color="#008000">[†]phantasm (n.): an imaginary appearance; a phantom[⁑]; fancy.</font><i><font size="1" color="#0000ff">~ (Funk &amp; Wagnalls Dictionary).<br></font></i><font size="2" face="Times" new="" roman="" color="#008000">[⁑]phantom (n.): something that exists only in appearance; an apparition; a ghost; spectre; a vision; an illusion; mirage; often used adjectively; as, “a phantom ship”.<i><font size="1" color="#0000ff"> ~ (Funk &amp; Wagnalls Dictionary).<br>[www.funkandwagnalls.com/phantasmal]</font></i></font></blockquote><font size="2" face="Times" new="" roman="" color="#008000"><font size="2" face="Times" new="" roman="" color="#008000">• phantasmal (adj.): of, relating to, or in the nature of an illusion; lacking reality: chimeric, chimerical, delusive, delusory, dreamlike, hallucinatory, illusive, illusory, phantasmagoric, phantasmic, visionary. <font size="1" color="#0000FF"><i>~ (American Heritage Roget’s Thesaurus).</i></font></font></font></font></td></tr></tbody></table>

[^psy]: Psychosexuality/mentalism

    <table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" border="0" style="position:relative;margin:0px;padding:0px;border-width:0px;left:0px;top:0px;line-height:normal;width:auto;"><tbody style="position:relative;margin:0px;padding:0px;border-width:0px;left:0px;top:0px;line-height:normal;width:auto;"><tr><td id="WzBoDyI" style="position: relative; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; border-width: 0px; left: 0px; top: 0px; line-height: normal; width: auto; color: rgb(106, 0, 0); font-family: Verdana, Geneva, sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-align: justify;"><font size="2" face="Times" new="" roman="" color="#008000">• [Dictionary Definition]: psychosexuality (n.): the mental representation<font color="#ff0000">⁽*⁾</font> of sexual activities. <i><font size="1" color="#0000ff">~ (Princeton’s WordNet 3.0).</font></i><br><font size="2" color="#ff0000">⁽*⁾</font><font size="2" face="Times" new="" roman="" color="#008000">mental representation (n.): a presentation to the mind in the form of an idea or image.<i><font size="1" color="#0000ff"> ~ (Princeton’s WordNet 3.0).</font></i><br><br><font size="2" face="Times" new="" roman="" color="#008000">• [Dictionary Definition]: mentalism (n.): a doctrine that mind is the true reality and that objects exist only as aspects of the mind’s awareness. <font size="1" color="#0000FF"><i>~ (Princeton’s WordNet 3.0).</i></font></font></font></font></td></tr></tbody></table>

[^amative]: Amative

    <table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" border="0" style="position:relative;margin:0px;padding:0px;border-width:0px;left:0px;top:0px;line-height:normal;width:auto;"><tbody style="position:relative;margin:0px;padding:0px;border-width:0px;left:0px;top:0px;line-height:normal;width:auto;"><tr><td id="WzBoDyI" style="position: relative; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; border-width: 0px; left: 0px; top: 0px; line-height: normal; width: auto; color: rgb(106, 0, 0); font-family: Verdana, Geneva, sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-align: justify;"><font size="2" face="Times" new="" roman="" color="#008000">[Dictionary Definition]: amative (adj.): relating to or inclined toward love, especially sexual love; amorous⁽*⁾; (adv.): amatively; (n.): amativeness. <font size="1">[1630; Medieval Latin amātīvus, ‘capable of love’, from amātus, past participle of Latin amāre, ‘to love’].<font color="#0000FF"><i> ~ (American Heritage Dictionary).</i></font></font><br><br>⁽*⁾amorous (adj.): 1. feeling or devoted to sexual love or desire; (synonyms): amative, concupiscent, erotic, lascivious, lecherous, lewd, libidinous, lustful, lusty, passionate, prurient, sexy; 2. of, concerning, or promoting sexual love or desire; (synonyms): amatory, aphrodisiac, erotic, lascivious, salacious, sexual, sexy. <font size="1" color="#0000FF"><i>~ (American Heritage Roget’s Thesaurus).</i></font></font></td></tr></tbody></table>

[^asseverate]: Asseverate

    <table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" border="0" style="position:relative;margin:0px;padding:0px;border-width:0px;left:0px;top:0px;line-height:normal;width:auto;"><tbody style="position:relative;margin:0px;padding:0px;border-width:0px;left:0px;top:0px;line-height:normal;width:auto;"><tr><td id="WzBoDyI" style="position: relative; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; border-width: 0px; left: 0px; top: 0px; line-height: normal; width: auto; color: rgb(106, 0, 0); font-family: Verdana, Geneva, sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-align: justify;"><font size="2" face="Times" new="" roman="" color="#008000">[Dictionary Definitions]:<br>• asseverate (tr.v.; asseverated, asseverating, asseverates): to declare seriously or positively; affirm; (n.): asseveration; (adj.): asseverative. [Latin assevērātus, past participle of assevērāre, ‘to declare’, ‘to do (something) <font size="1" color="#0000FF"><i>~ (American Heritage Dictionary).</i></font><br>• asseverate (v.): state categorically; (synonyms): assert, maintain; insist, take a firm stand (be emphatic or resolute and refuse to budge); [e.g.]: “I must insist!”. <font size="1" color="#0000FF"><i>~ (Princeton’s WordNet 3.0).</i></font></font></td></tr></tbody></table>

[^p]: “Sexual Orientation Identity” (in Sociologese)	

    > “The task force was asked to report on the appropriate application of affirmative therapeutic interventions for adults who present a desire to change their sexual orientation or their behavioural expression of their sexual orientation, or both. (...elided...). In terms of formulating the goals of treatment, we propose that, on the basis of research on sexual orientation and sexual orientation identity, what appears to **shift and evolve** in some individuals’ lives is **sexual orientation identity**, not sexual orientation. Given that there is diversity in how individuals define and express their sexual orientation identity, an affirmative approach is supportive of clients’ **identity development** without an a priori treatment goal concerning how clients identify or live out their sexual orientation or spiritual beliefs. This type of therapy can provide a safe space where the different aspects of **the evolving self** can be acknowledged, explored, respected, and potentially rewoven into a more coherent **sense** of self that **feels** authentic to the client, and it can be helpful to those who accept, reject, or are ambivalent about their same-sex attractions...”. <font color="#0000FF">[emphases added].<i> <font size="1">~ (from pp 4-5, “Appropriate Therapeutic Responses to Sexual Orientation” by the ‘American Psychological Association’; August 2009). https://www.apa.org/pi/lgbc/publications/therapeutic-response.pdf
